Now remember in the last lecture when we introduced both men we did this first to request to the API
endpoint and got this Jason back.
And you can remember that all we had to do is to return this post comments which is a collection object.
And then this was magically turned into the J some.
So let's see how this all works and what can you do to return a Jason response from Lavell.
So this is actually documented inside a lot of documentation so link included under this lecture so
you can either return a String from end point which would return as a HDL or alternatively if you will
return an array Lovell will automatically convert that to a Jason response so the framework is doing
this for us.
Now let's go back to visual studio code and actually this post comments is not an array you can verify
that by doing a dump post comments and here we'll actually check is array.
So this is a peach B function checking if the variable is actually an array and add die here.
Now let's go back to postmen.
We can use it even for debugging.
So as you will dump something then you can just go to preview and now you see that it's not an array
but what it is is it is our collection.
So let's get the class of post comments using.
Sorry.
Using peach b get class function.
Now let's try it out again.
So this is not an array but it is illuminate database eloquent collection so let's find collection class
so this would be this one illuminate database lock and and eat extends this base class
so if you will go to this base class Illuminate Support collection mind.
You have to have out pressed and click on it.
Now what you can see here is that it implements a specific interface.
It is called a rainbow if you will out click on this again you can see it has only one method to array.
Now this is this is interesting because a lot of that is not only checking in your controllers whether
what you return is an array but also if it implements this specific arrival interface and as you remember
which whenever class implements this interface it has to implement all the methods of the interface.
So by using this interface you are telling Lavell that some class can be converted to array and vast
array can be converted to Jason so inside this collection object which we know that post comments is
it is a collection there should be are two Array method.
So press comment f or control F and find that to Array method.
So it is actually implemented in this collection object and what it does it's using array map which
is a BJP function to iterate over all the elements of this collection.
And then if they also are an instance of a reliable which means they implement this interface the arrival
interface it calls value to Array method on those individual classes.
Okay.
So we have a collection and we also know that this collection has items of class comment.
So let's go into comment.
This is our larval model so we can see that comment extends model.
And if you go into model what you can find is a reliable.
So it also implements this interface VARs Lavell knows how to convert this particular class or every
class that extends model to an array.
So Lovell has some settings that lets you configure how the model should be converted to array but we'll
cover that in the next lecture.
Now just so you know this is how it all works.
So it's not only that the response has to be an array but it can also be a class that implements are
reliable.
And then this is also nicely converted to Jason as you could see here.
So if we will comment that out again we can see that this is our collection object which has our comment
models and then Lavell knows how to convert it to an array and then finally it knows that when you return
and the way it has to be converted to adjacent response and that's it.
This is how it works.
And in the next lecture you will see how you can tell a lot of know how to convert a model to an array
VARs if you would not like to include some fields you can hide them.